My name is Naman Chopra. I'm a Senior enterprise architect. I'm originally from New Delhi, India.
I love all foods, particularly North Indian food, but strangely I'm repelled by almost all forms of cheese! A die heart Chicken lover, I preffer non-veg over any other form of food

NAMAN CHOPRA
Belur Apartments, Dwarka-18A, New delhi-110075 | +919910337057 | namanchopra21087@gmail.com |
LinkedIn: https://www.linkedin.com/in/naman-chopra-7382b315/
Senior Enterprise Architect
BLOCKCHAIN | EOS | SOLANA | AWS | AZURE | SERVERLESS | JAVA | SPRING BOOT |MICROSERVICES | SPRING
SECURITY | JWT | ANGULAR-8 |MONGO ATLAS | CI/CD TOOLS |KUBERNETES
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
• Principal-level Architect with 15+ years of experience building large-scale distributed systems across
fintech, SaaS, ecommerce and enterprise domains.
• Designed multi-tenant SaaS platforms serving 350+ enterprise clients per region.
• Architected high-throughput systems processing 50K+ messages per minute and 1M+ transactions per day.
• Led engineering teams across backend, frontend, DevOps and cloud architecture from RFP to production
scale.
• Strong hands-on expertise in microservices, event-driven architecture, serverless computing and cloud-
native design.
CORE COMPETENCIES
• Architecture: Microservices, Event-Driven Architecture, Domain-Driven Design, Saga Pattern, Multi-Tenant
SaaS.
• Cloud Platforms: AWS (Lambda, SNS, SQS, Route 53, S3, Cognito, Aurora, SES, EKS, ALB, VPC, Subnet, DynamoDB,
Document DB, EC2, CloudWatch, API Gateway), Azure (VM, Functions, AKS, Blob Storage, Cosmos DB, Azure
DNS, VNet, Subnet, Application Gateway, Service Bus Queue, Notification Hub, Active Directory).
• Backend: Java (8–17), Spring Boot, Spring Security, JWT, NestJs.
• Frontend: React, Next.js, Angular, Node.js.
• Data & Streaming: PostgreSQL, MongoDB, MongoDB Atlas, DynamoDB, Snowflake, Kafka, Confluent.
• DevOps & Infra: Docker, Kubernetes, Terraform, CloudFormation, GitHub Actions, Jenkins, Azure DevOps.
• DApps: Blockchain, Solana, EOS, Corda.
• Code Monitoring/Quality Tools: AWS CloudWatch, Prometheus & Grafana Dashboards, ELK, Swagger, SonarQube,
Veracode.
PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE
Pure-Software 21st August 2017 till date
Markit (S&P Global) 10th June 2014 till 31st July 2017
Fidelity 4th November 2013 till 4th June 2014
Accenture 27th July 2010 till 31st October2013
KEY ASSIGNMENTS
PURESOFTWARE
Project Cappitech (1st Jan 2025 till date)
Client S&P Global
Area of work Principal Architect
Description Green field project to build SaaS reconciliation platform for different
datasets at scale
Responsibilities • I was involved from RFP stage, building architecture design,
finalizing tech roles and hiring
• Build reconciliation platform for datasets coming from different
sources
• Designed multi-tenant architecture platform which can be used
by 350+ clients per region
• Designed distributed reconciliation engine processing 50K+
messages/min and 200+ daily jobs (1GB each) using AWS SQS-
based Saga choreography
• Pairing of records must happen from both datasets at scale
• System was designed using saga choreography design pattern
leveraging SQS for async communication
• At the end of each recon, breaks are generated for each
mismatch of fields
• Breaks are converted into tickets and ingested into inhouse
ticket management system
• Auto closure of breaks happens on next recon run once the
breaks are fixed at source
Solution Environment AWS, EKS, SQS, PostgreSQL with JSONB, React, Java, Docker
Technology • Build backend apis leveraging java
• React was used for building front end
• Backend microservices architecture was built using Java 17
• Api’s were deployed on EKS
• GitHub is used for CI/CD pipelines
PURESOFTWARE
Project Prop-X (1st August 2024 till 28th Feb 2025)
Area of work Solution Architect
Description Green field project to build online platform to transact properties
directly between buyers & sellers
Responsibilities • Design & implement web portal which can be leveraged by
buyers and vetted sellers for selling/purchase of
residential/commercial properties in UAE.
• I was involved from RFP till development stage
• Designed e2e architecture and setup team to deliver
• Responsible for Azure Devops
Solution Environment Azure, AKS, Cosmos DB, Blob Storage
Technology • Build backend apis leveraging java
• Next.js was used for building front end
• Api’s were deployed on AKS
• Bitbucket is used for CI/CD pipelines
PURESOFTWARE
Project UNTIL (1st June 2024 till 15th April 2025)
Area of work Solution Architect
Description Build web portal for wellness industry to book spaces. It is on model
of co-working space for wellness industry
Responsibilities • Build backend apis leveraging Nodejs
• Next.js was used for building front end
• Api’s were deployed on lambda
• Git-Actions is used for CI/CD pipelines
Solution Environment AWS, Lambda
Technology Node.js, Next.js
PURESOFTWARE
Project THG (1st May 2023 till 31st May 2024)
Area of work Solution Architect
Description Saas e-commerce platform
Responsibilities • I handled a team of 42 people working in various verticals
• We built Ingenuity product integration layers
• Helped in cloud migration from EC2 to EKS
• Helped client go-live for Matlan ecommerce platform
Solution Environment AWS, Springboot, Keycloak, Java, ReactJs
Technology Java 17, AWS
PURESOFTWARE
Project JAPFA (1st May 2023 till 31st October 2024)
Area of work Solution Architect
Description Build end to end ecommerce platform for raw products to be sold on
D2C platform. Model like Licious India.
Responsibilities • Build Android/IOS mobile App for D2C customers.
• Implement ecommerce website complimentary to mobile
apps for web traffic.
• Build Backoffice operations platform for managing inventory,
invoicing, catalogue uploading etc.
• Built cloud native environment leveraging AWS cloud.
• Implement backend microservice architecture with Sprint
Boot & Java.
Solution Environment AWS, Springboot, Keycloak, Flutter, ReactJs
Technology Java 17, AWS
PURESOFTWARE
Project HUB (1st September 2022 till 30th April 2023)
Area of work Solution Architect
Description Build post trade settlement application using event driven design to
minimize latency to milli-seconds
Responsibilities • Integrate reference data into client environment from
Bloomberg.
• Data ingestion pipeline was built using Confluent (SAAS
offering of Kafka).
• Kafka connectors helped ingest data from topics into
snowflake, postgres.
• Data scrubbing engine was built to massage the data in HUB
compliant format.
• Integration with Matching platforms like Tirana for
settlement of trade.
• Leveraged Palto Alto networks for Security.
Solution Environment Kafka, KSql, Java 17, Azure, Confluent, Palo Alto Networks
Technology Java 17, Azure
PURESOFTWARE
Project Jumpstart (1st Feb 2022 till 31st August 2022)
Client Encore
Area of work Solution Architect
Description Worked as a solution architect, for designing headless application
with serverless features
Responsibilities • Build microservices for marketing letters.
• Transaction volume was more than 1 million per day.
• Designed system using Cloud native AWS services likes S3,
SQS, SNS, Lambda.
• It’s a headless system with async communication from
outside world.
Solution Environment Java, Spring, AWS, Lambda for serverless
Technology Java
PURESOFTWARE
Project Arttha (1st Oct 2021 till 31st Jan 2022)
Client In House Fintech Product
Area of work Solution Architect
Description Worked as a solution architect, for designing mobile app in flutter
Responsibilities • Develop lending page for loan app.
• App must support IOS/Android mobiles.
• It was a scratch development project.
• Flutter was taken as the technology stack to utilize its
platform agnostic features and mobile hardening out of the
box support.
Solution Environment IOS, Android mobile app
Technology Flutter
PURESOFTWARE
Project Blacksmith (1st Jan 2021 till 30th September 2021)
Client Bolttech (Malaysia)
Area of work TechLead
Description I was full stack tech lead responsible for development and integration
of front end and backend
Responsibilities • Work on next generation tech stack to speed up time to
market for BAU teams.
• POC & R&D on tech stack like:
o Blockchain
o Smart TV App
o Zoom Integration App for Sales Agent
o Product Foundry Rule Engine Automation
o Cypress integration for automation of test suite
o Corda permissioned blockchain
o EOS Delegated proof of stake POC
o Solana
Solution Environment Eos, Corda Dapps, Tizen OS, Terraform, Zoom App integration with
Spring Boot, Java 8
Technology Blockchain, Tizen OS for smart TV
PURESOFTWARE
Project CRMZ (21st Jan 2019 till 31st Dec 2020)
Client Amtrust Mobile Solutions/Bolttech (Malaysia)
Area of work TechLead
Description I was full stack tech lead responsible for development and
integration of front end and backend
Responsibilities • Worked on a project from scratch.
• First developer hired for project.
• CRMZ product first ever line of code was written by me.
• Designing the application workflow.
• Implemented multi-tenant architecture.
• Individually helped Amtrust establish a team, setup agile
processes.
• Developed modules like policy and Identity.
• Did front end and Backend coding.
• Had a strong relationship with client as I was actively
involved in requirement gathering.
• Played scrum-master role as well.
• Involved in dev-ops as well for production deployment.
Solution Environment Springboot-2, Microservices, Spring-Security, JWT, Angular-8, Maven,
Mongo-DB, AWS (EC2, API-Gateway, Lambda Services, S3, Route 53,
SNS, SQS, COGNITO), Jenkins.
Technology Jdk-1.8, Spring-Boot 2, Spring Security, Angular-8.
PURESOFTWARE
Project Power-Curve (21st August 2017 31st December 2018)
Client Experian (Malaysia)
Area of work Tech Lead
Description Worked as tech lead in maintaining a team of 14 resources (9
developers and 5 QA)
Responsibilities • Developed and followed agile project management plan (Agile
Ceremonies).
• Facilitated build requirements log (product backlog) with cost
estimates and priority.
• Conducted Scrum Daily stand up, Product backlog, Sprint
Planning, Sprint Review & Sprint Retrospective meetings.
• Measuring team performance using matrix like ‘Velocity’ and
‘Focus factor’.
• Involved in technical design analysis and estimation of new
feature development.
Solution Environment J2ee with jdk-1.8, Oracle SQL, Microsoft SQL
Technology Java, Spring, Hibernate, Semaphore for concurrency, Countdown-
Latch.
MARKIT
Project IMSecurities (30th August 2015-31st July 2017)
Client Nordea
Area of work Worked on Restful webservices
Description Developed 17th webservices for various IMSecurities product
functionalities like casearch, CreateElection,
TransactionCustodyRetailSearch, FifoWebservice subposition transfer.
Responsibilities I was involved in end-to-end development of 17 different webservices
in both GET and PUT request. For triggering Put webservice we used
rest-client from Firefox.
Solution Environment J2ee, Oracle SQL
Technology Java
MARKIT
Project IMActions (1st Jan 2015- 30th August 2015)
Client UBS, Nordea, GIC, NTS, CITI
Area of work Worked on Gwt, hibernate and spring.
Description IMActions is an application that is used for scrubbing and
processing of corporate actions.
Responsibilities I was involved in end-to-end development of various CR’s
Solution Environment J2ee, Oracle SQL
Technology Java
MARKIT
Project IMConnecting (10th June 2014- 31st December 2014)
Client Singapore stock exchange
Area of work Worked on Gwt, hibernate and spring.
Description IMConnecting is a platform to announce corporate actions by issuer
which can be seen and further elected by investors.
Responsibilities I was involved in end-to-end development of various corporate
action templates like DVOP, Rights.
Solution Environment J2ee, GWT, Hibernate
Technology Java
FIDELITY
Project PlanViewer (November 2013 - 9th June 2014)
Client Fidelity
Area of work Worked on back-end technology like struts
Description Fidelity is a finance company. Most of its mutual fund’s business is
in UK. PlanViewer is one of the clients supported applications
directly used by clients in UK.
Responsibilities I was involved in FATCA, one of the regulatory projects of fidelity. I
was directly involved in struts back-end coding.
Solution Environment J2EE, Struts
Technology Java
ACCENTURE
Project New York City-HHS Accelerator (10th January 2013 – 30th September 2013)
Client New York City (Government Project)
Area of Work Portal & Portlet’s
Description It’s a government project. New-York mayor wants a publicly accessible portal, where extern
can bid for various public-service related schemes. Once a provider is finalized for a specific s
which is entitled to the designated provider for a specific duration.
• To build this application we used Spring MVC framework. Portal and Portlets were used to
• This application will be used by multiple agencies and its associated providers to various p
• My role was to develop Portlets enabled with spring-mvc architecture.
• From the controller we hit transaction to call a specific service for a given functionality.
• To access the database from service layer Dao classes were made.
• Oracle-SQL was used as the database for all DDL’s & DML’s.
Responsibilities • Developing J2EE functionalities, with Spring-MVC framework.
• Testing of all the new functionalities to nullify client-side bug.
• Delivering all the required CR’S on target dates.
• Once the built was over, resolving all the SIT bugs to deliver a bug free product to the clien
• Direct client interaction to guide them regarding all the new changes through meetings or
Initiatives/Contribution • Developed a reusable code using Spring-MVC.
Solution Environment J2EE,Spring-MVC,JSp,Jquery:Ajax,Portals.
Technology Java
ACCENTURE
Project Areva development and maintenance (1st March 2012 - 9th January 2013)
Area of work Worked extensively on web
Description • Areva client is one of the largest manufacturers of transformers and electrical appliances i
• They have about 1200 applications that are supported by Accenture in JAVA all designed in
• Some of the critical client-based applications are Project monthly report (PMR), CCHS, B-B
Responsibilities • Developing JavaScript design elements for the client requirements.
• Testing of all the new functionalities to nullify client-side bug.
• Delivering all the required CR’S on target dates.
• Resolving tickets that came in my queue on or before the breach-date.
• Direct client interaction to guide them regarding all the new changes through meetings or
Solution Environment J2EE,JSP,MVC
Technology Java
ACCENTURE
Project Henkel SAM-Enhancements and Maintenance (1st October 2010 - 28th Feb 2012)
Area of Work Worked Extensively on Client-Side Developments
Description The project is aimed at delivering business solutions with speed & innovation, reliabilit
effectiveness by providing a high impact Middleware & Backend Solutions inclusive of JA
requirements.
• This company adopted JAVA as a technology to make its internal users integrate all inform
• Henkel employees used the entire database that supported JAVA client and web functional
• My role was to develop new requirements for the user in JavaScript.
• JAVA was responsible for gathering data from all the users regarding different application
uploaded on the Henkel servers from where it was further uploaded into SAP.
Responsibilities • Developing JavaScript design elements for the client requirements.
• Testing of all the new functionalities to nullify client-side bug.
• Delivering all the required CR’S on target dates.
• Resolving tickets that came in my queue on or before the breach-date.
• Direct client interaction to guide them regarding all the new changes through meetings or
Initiatives/Contribution • Developed a reusable code in Java Script to compare field data in multiple documents at on
• Documented solutions of multiple issues for future reference.
• Delivered KT to new team-members.
Solution Environment J2EE,JavaScript,Scriplets.
Technology Java
EDUCATIONAL CREDENTIALS
B Tech from Thapar University, Patiala (2010)